>> Every day, we are
under a constant barrage
of advertising.
Some estimates say the
average person sees up
to 10,000 ads in a day.
Now, are the advertisers
coming for our dreams?
This is a Gaia News Breakdown.
Henry David Thoreau once wrote,
"Dreams are the touchstone
of our characters."
But for some companies,
dreams might be the touchstone
for advertising their products.
According to thehustle.com,
companies like Molson Coors
are conducting experiments to
infiltrate your subconscious
and make you dream
about their products.
Last year, volunteers
were reportedly
asked to watch
this strange trippy
video laden with Coors imagery.
The volunteers then went
to sleep while listening
to audio from the video.
Coors wanted to, quote,
"shape and compel
the subconscious to dream
about their products."
And apparently, it worked.
About 30% of the participants
reported Coors in their dreams.
One woman told The Hustle
she had a series of,
quote, "weird Coors dreams."
Later, she said they were
brought into a focus group
where she said, quote, "We
all felt like lab rats.
It just didn't
really sit right."
This type of suggestive behavior
to elicit specific dreams
is called targeted
dream incubation or TDI
where, for example, the
brain is trained while awake
to associate a sound
or smell with an item.
Then as the person goes to
sleep, the sound or the scent
is introduced, and the person
will dream about the associated
item.
Sleep researchers argue
the treatment aspect of TDI
shows many positive
implications, including
helping with
depression, alleviating
post-traumatic stress disorder,
fighting addiction, and helping
us learn.
But as researcher
and MIT PhD student,
Adam Haar Horowitz said in an
interview, quote, "On one hand,
dream manipulation
is gaining acceptance
and has all these
great applications.
And on the other hand it's,
"Oh, [BLEEP],, the advertisers
are coming."
Coors is not the only company
looking into dream ads.
Microsoft, Sony, Burger
King, and some airlines
are reportedly looking into
TDI advertising as well.
For now, this is a
voluntary practice.
There must be an auditory
stimulus during sleep
for it to work.
But some warn with the
rise of smart devices,
some unethical advertisers
could send signals
through smart speakers in
our sleep without us knowing.
Sleep researchers
are so concerned,
last year they wrote an open
letter signed by nearly 40
scientists, warning that, quote,
"Our dreams cannot become just
another playground for
corporate advertisers.
Our dreams are the most personal
intimate part of our psyche."
As Robert Stickgold, Harvard
Medical School psychiatry
professor and dream researcher
told The Hustle, quote,
"All night long, your brain
is reprocessing memories
from the previous
day, connecting them
with other memories,
sifting through the residue
to decide which ones to
keep and stabilizing them.
Our dreams are literally
creating who we are."
For a new perspective, this
is a Gaia News Breakdown.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.